{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\brsp80 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1\brsp80 \nowidctlpar\li142\ri113\sa60\qj\lang1036\b\f0\fs22 IMPORTANT - VEUILLEZ LIRE ATTENTIVEMENT LES INFORMATIONS SUIVANTES AVANT D\rquote UTILISER CE LOGICIEL: n\rquote installez pas, ne t\'e9l\'e9chargez pas ou n\rquote utilisez pas le logiciel eID Toolkit avant d\rquote avoir lu et accept\'e9 les conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat (y compris son Annexe). En cliquant sur \'ab J\rquote accepte \'bb, en installant, en t\'e9l\'e9chargeant ou en utilisant l\rquote eID Toolkit, vous reconnaissez \'eatre soumis aux conditions reprises dans le pr\'e9sent Contrat (y compris son Annexe). Si vous n\rquote acceptez pas lesdites conditions du pr\'e9sent contrat (et/ou son Annexe), cliquez sur \'ab annuler \'bb et/ou n\rquote installez pas le logiciel eID Toolkit.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\par
\par
\par
Licence du logiciel eID Toolkit\par
\par
\pard\qj\b0 Attendu que ce logiciel eID Toolkit est livr\'e9 dans une version finale;\par
\par
Attendu que cet eID Toolkit est fourni gratuitement par Fedict \'e0 des fins d\rquote utilisation intensive par toute tierce partie soumise aux conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
Attendu que le pr\'e9sent Contrat porte sur une biblioth\'e8que libre, d\'e9velopp\'e9e sur la base d\rquote un logiciel libre, les pr\'e9sentes conditions ou celles reprises en Annexe, doivent \'eatre satisfaites par toute partie en vue de l\rquote utilisation, de la reproduction, de la copie, de la modification, de la pr\'e9sentation et de la distribution l\rquote eID Toolkit;\par
\par
Attendu que le pr\'e9sent Contrat ne limite en rien votre libert\'e9 de partager l\rquote eID Toolkit et de lui apporter des modifications afin de permettre sa diffusion maximale \'e0 d\rquote autres utilisateurs potentiels, \'e0 condition qu\rquote une telle utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit soit conforme aux conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat (y compris son Annexe).\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\b\par
\pard\qj\ul Article 1: Octroi de licence\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\b0 Les conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat de Licence (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9 \'ab Contrat de Licence \'bb) conclu entre d\rquote une part, le preneur de licence, et, d\rquote autre part, le Gouvernement f\'e9d\'e9ral belge (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9 \'ab Fedict \'bb), le donneur de licence, r\'e9gissent l\rquote octroi par Fedict au preneur de licence, conform\'e9ment aux conditions et dans les limites stipul\'e9es dans le pr\'e9sent Contrat de Licence et son Annexe (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9 \'ab Contrat \'bb), d\rquote un droit mondial, libre de redevance, non exclusif, perp\'e9tuel et transf\'e9rable d\rquote utilisation, de reproduction, de copie, de modification, de pr\'e9sentation et de distribution du logiciel repris en Annexe (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9 \'ab eID Toolkit \'bb).\par
\par
\par
\ul\b Article 2\ulnone\b0 :\b  Garanties et clause de non-responsabilit\'e9 du donneur de licence\par
\par
\b0 2.1. Attendu que l\rquote eID Toolkit n\rquote a ni \'e9t\'e9 sp\'e9cialement cr\'e9\'e9, ni con\'e7u sur mesure ou sur la base des besoins sp\'e9cifiques du preneur de licence, Fedict ne garantit nullement que l\rquote eID Toolkit satisfera aux exigences particuli\'e8res du preneur de licence ou que le fonctionnement de l\rquote eID Toolkit pourra \'eatre combin\'e9 aux outils choisis par le preneur de licence. Attendu qu\rquote aucun logiciel ne pr\'e9sente aucune erreur, Fedict ne peut \'eatre tenu responsable d\rquote\'e9ventuelles interruptions ou erreurs entravant le bon fonctionnement de l\rquote eID Toolkit. \par
\par
2.2. Sans pr\'e9judice du paragraphe pr\'e9c\'e9dent, cet eID Toolkit est fourni \'ab EN L\rquote ETAT \'bb, sans garantie d'aucune nature, qu'elle soit expresse ou implicite, autre que celles mentionn\'e9es au paragraphe 2.1, y compris \'e0 titre non limitatif, toute garantie implicite de qualit\'e9 satisfaisante et d'adaptation \'e0 un but d\'e9termin\'e9.\par
\par
2.3 Le pr\'e9sent Contrat ne donne nullement droit \'e0 des services de maintenance, de support (par t\'e9l\'e9phone, fax ou e-mail) ou d\rquote assistance d\rquote aucune nature inh\'e9rents \'e0 l\rquote eID Toolkit ou \'e0 toute modification, de quelque nature ce soit, apport\'e9e \'e0 l\rquote eID Toolkit, y compris \'e0 titre non limitatif, des ajouts, des mises \'e0 jour, des am\'e9liorations apport\'e9s au contenu et \'e0 la structure du logiciel (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9s \'ab Modifications \'bb).\b\par
\par
\ul Article 3:\ulnone  Obligations du preneur de licence\par
\par
\b0 3.1. L\rquote utilisation, y compris \'e0 titre non limitatif, la reproduction, la copie, la modification, la pr\'e9sentation et la distribution de quelque nature ce soit, est soumise aux conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat. Le preneur de licence s\rquote engage \'e0 respecter les conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat y compris les licences r\'e9gissant les biblioth\'e8ques et codes d\'e9velopp\'e9s (et prot\'e9g\'e9s par les droits de propri\'e9t\'e9 intellectuelle le cas \'e9ch\'e9ant) par des tiers, utilis\'e9s dans leur int\'e9gralit\'e9 ou en partie dans le cadre du processus de d\'e9veloppement de l\rquote eID Toolkit, repris dans l\rquote application eID, li\'e9s \'e0, int\'e9gr\'e9s dans ou compil\'e9s avec d\rquote autres biblioth\'e8ques et codes pour cr\'e9er l\rquote eID Toolkit (ci-apr\'e8s d\'e9nomm\'e9s \'ab R\'e9alisations de tiers \'bb).\par
\par
3.2. La copie, la modification, l\rquote octroi de sous-licence ou la distribution, de quelque nature que ce soit, du logiciel eID Toolkit doit s\rquote effectuer conform\'e9ment aux conditions expresses du pr\'e9sent Contrat. Toute tentative de copie, de modification, d\rquote octroi de sous-licence ou de distribution d\rquote eID Toolkit non conforme aux dites conditions sera consid\'e9r\'e9e nulle et non avenue et mettra automatiquement un terme aux droits conf\'e9r\'e9s par le pr\'e9sent Contrat.\par
\par
3.3. Les redistributions du code source, modifi\'e9 ou non, sous forme binaire doivent reprendre le pr\'e9sent Contrat y compris les licences r\'e9gissant les biblioth\'e8ques et les codes d\'e9velopp\'e9s par des tiers utilis\'e9s dans leur int\'e9gralit\'e9 ou en partie dans le cadre du processus de d\'e9veloppement de l\rquote eID Toolkit.\par
\par
3.4. Le nom de Fedict ne peut \'eatre employ\'e9 en vue de l\'e9gitimer et de promouvoir des produits d\'e9riv\'e9s de cet eID Toolkit sans son autorisation pr\'e9alable sp\'e9cifique.\par
\par
3.5. En cas de non-respect des conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat du chef du preneur de licence, il ne sera nullement mis un terme aux licences des parties tierces s\rquote\'e9tant vues conf\'e9rer par le preneur de licence des copies ou des droits en vertu du pr\'e9sent Contrat pour autant que lesdites parties respectent toujours pleinement les conditions susmentionn\'e9es. \par
\par
\ul\b Article 4\ulnone : Responsabilit\'e9\par
\b0\par
4.1. En vertu du pr\'e9sent Contrat, Fedict ne pourra, dans aucun cas, \'e0 l\rquote exception d\rquote une fraude ou d\rquote une faute intentionnelle, \'eatre tenu responsable de dommage indirect, sp\'e9cial, accidentel ou cons\'e9cutif, ou d\rquote une perte de b\'e9n\'e9fice, de donn\'e9es, d\rquote\'e9conomies, d\rquote un manque \'e0 gagner, de pertes commerciales, de frais de personnel ou frais de rotation de personnel, de d\'e9faillance ou de disfonctionnement informatique, de panne de syst\'e8me IT, d\rquote interruption de travail ou d\rquote autres pr\'e9judices techniques ou op\'e9rationnels de quelque nature que ce soit, ainsi que d\rquote autres dommages et int\'e9r\'eats indirects, cons\'e9cutifs ou punitifs d\'e9coulant de ou inh\'e9rents \'e0 l\rquote utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit ou de toute version modifi\'e9e ou d\'e9riv\'e9e, ou de tous dommages et pertes commerciaux d\'e9coulant de son utilisation. \par
\ul\b\par
\pard\qj\ulnone\b0 4.2. Fedict ne pourra \'eatre tenu d\rquote indemniser le preneur de licence \'e0 la suite d\rquote une plainte de quelque nature que ce soit, relative \'e0 une infraction de tout droit de propri\'e9t\'e9 intellectuelle, y compris la complicit\'e9 de contrefa\'e7on ou l\rquote incitation au non-respect des droits revendiqu\'e9s dans l\rquote eID Toolkit par les auteurs des R\'e9alisations de tiers telles que mentionn\'e9es dans les avis sp\'e9ciaux de l\rquote Annexe. Le preneur de licence s\rquote engage \'e0 indemniser, d\'e9fendre et exempter Fedict de tous les plaintes, demandes, amendes, poursuites, pertes, engagements, dommages, frais et d\'e9penses de quelque nature que ce soit, inh\'e9rents directement ou indirectement aux Modifications et/ou \'e0 l\rquote utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit de mani\'e8re autonome ou avec d\rquote autres dispositifs, produits, logiciels, services et/ou mat\'e9riaux, \'e0 condition que Fedict l\rquote avertisse par \'e9crit de la plainte et lui permette d\rquote effectuer les contr\'f4les requis et collabore, de mani\'e8re raisonnable, avec lui \'e0 la d\'e9fense de ses int\'e9r\'eats et \'e0 toute n\'e9gociation de conciliation inh\'e9rente \'e0 ladite plainte.  \par
\pard\par
\pard\qj 4.3. Fedict ne pourra \'eatre tenu responsable (i) des cons\'e9quences des modifications apport\'e9es \'e0 l\rquote eID Toolkit, \'e0 l\rquote int\'e9gration de l\rquote eID Toolkit dans des produits de marque d\'e9pos\'e9e, ou de l\rquote utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit avec d\rquote autres dispositifs, produits, logiciels, services et/ou mat\'e9riaux ou (ii) de la d\'e9termination de la n\'e9cessit\'e9 d\rquote obtenir une licence ou des droits compl\'e9mentaires pour des R\'e9alisations de tiers, de l\rquote obtention d\rquote une telle licence en son nom, ou du paiement des droits inh\'e9rents \'e0 de telles licences, dans la mesure o\'f9 de telles R\'e9alisations de tiers sont des produits libres.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj\par
\ul\b Article 5\ulnone : R\'e9siliation et \'e9ch\'e9ance\par
\ul\par
\ulnone\b0 5.1 Toute violation du pr\'e9sent Contrat du chef du preneur de licence r\'e9siliera automatiquement le Contrat et toutes les licences octroy\'e9es par le donneur de licence ci-dessous. \par
\par
5.2 A l\rquote\'e9ch\'e9ance du pr\'e9sent Contrat, le preneur de licence cessera toute utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit et d\'e9truira toute copie de l\rquote eID Toolkit en sa possession ou sous son contr\'f4le.\ul\b\par
\par
Article 6:\ulnone  G\'e9n\'e9ralit\'e9s\par
\ul\par
\ulnone\b0 6.1 Si l\rquote une des clauses ou conditions du pr\'e9sent Contrat s\rquote av\'e9rait ill\'e9gale ou nulle, ladite clause ou condition serait consid\'e9r\'e9e nulle et non avenue, toutes les autres clauses et conditions demeurant inchang\'e9es et gardant leur plein effet. Pareille clause ou condition non valide sera modifi\'e9e par les parties dans la mesure requise pour lui rendre un caract\'e8re valide, l\'e9gal et opposable tout en pr\'e9servant l\rquote intention des parties et l\rquote\'e9quilibre entre elles. \ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
6.2 Le pr\'e9sent Contrat marque l\rquote accord complet des parties sur les modalit\'e9s d\rquote utilisation de l\rquote eID Toolkit et pr\'e9vaut \'e0 toute autre communication orale et \'e9crite pr\'e9alable.\par
\par
6.3 Le pr\'e9sent Contrat est r\'e9gi par la l\'e9gislation belge. Seuls les Tribunaux de Bruxelles seront comp\'e9tents pour r\'e9gler tout litige n\rquote ayant pu \'eatre r\'e9solu \'e0 l\rquote amiable. \ul\b\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\page Annexe\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qc\ulnone Caract\'e9ristiques du Belgian eID Toolkit\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\par
\par
\b0 Ce logiciel se sert des projets "Source Ouvert" suivants:\par
- OpenSC (voir http://www.opensc.org)\par
  license: GNU LGPL\par
- OpenSSL (voir http://www.openssl.org)\par
  licenses: license OpenSSL et license SSLeay\par
\par
Le texte original des licences est repris ci-dessous. Lorsque le texte d\rquote une licence n\rquote existe pas officiellement en version fran\'e7aise, cette licence est reprise dans la langue d\rquote origine.\par
\par
-----------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\tab\tab   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
\tab\tab        Version 2.1, February 1999\par
\par
 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
     59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA\par
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\par
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts\par
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence\par
 the version number 2.1.]\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     Preamble\par
\par
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your\par
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public\par
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change\par
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.\par
\par
  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some\par
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the\par
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You\par
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether\par
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better\par
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.\par
\par
  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,\par
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that\par
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge\par
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get\par
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of\par
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do\par
these things.\par
\par
  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid\par
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these\par
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for\par
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.\par
\par
  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis\par
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave\par
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source\par
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide\par
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them\par
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling\par
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.\par
\par
  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the\par
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal\par
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.\par
\par
  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that\par
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is\par
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know\par
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original\par
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be\par
introduced by others.\par
\page\par
  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of\par
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot\par
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a\par
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that\par
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be\par
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.\par
\par
  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the\par
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser\par
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and\par
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use\par
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those\par
libraries into non-free programs.\par
\par
  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using\par
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a\par
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary\par
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the\par
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General\par
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with\par
the library.\par
\par
  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it\par
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General\par
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less\par
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages\par
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many\par
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain\par
special circumstances.\par
\par
  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to\par
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes\par
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be\par
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free\par
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this\par
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free\par
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.\par
\par
  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free\par
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of\par
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in\par
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU\par
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating\par
system.\par
\par
  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the\par
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is\par
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run\par
that program using a modified version of the Library.\par
\par
  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and\par
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a\par
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The\par
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must\par
be combined with the library in order to run.\par
\page\par
\tab\tab   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\par
\par
  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other\par
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or\par
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of\par
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").\par
Each licensee is addressed as "you".\par
\par
  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data\par
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs\par
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.\par
\par
  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work\par
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the\par
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under\par
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a\par
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated\par
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is\par
included without limitation in the term "modification".)\par
\par
  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for\par
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means\par
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated\par
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation\par
and installation of the library.\par
\par
  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not\par
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of\par
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from\par
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based\par
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for\par
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does\par
and what the program that uses the Library does.\par
  \par
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's\par
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that\par
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an\par
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact\par
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any\par
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the\par
Library.\par
\par
  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,\par
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a\par
fee.\par
\page\par
  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion\par
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and\par
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1\par
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\par
\par
    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.\par
\par
    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices\par
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\par
\par
    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no\par
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.\par
\par
    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a\par
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses\par
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility\par
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,\par
    in the event an application does not supply such function or\par
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of\par
    its purpose remains meaningful.\par
\par
    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has\par
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the\par
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any\par
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must\par
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square\par
    root function must still compute square roots.)\par
\par
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If\par
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,\par
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in\par
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those\par
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you\par
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based\par
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of\par
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the\par
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote\par
it.\par
\par
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest\par
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to\par
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or\par
collective works based on the Library.\par
\par
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library\par
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of\par
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under\par
the scope of this License.\par
\par
  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public\par
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do\par
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so\par
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,\par
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the\par
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify\par
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in\par
these notices.\par
\page\par
  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for\par
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all\par
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.\par
\par
  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of\par
the Library into a program that is not a library.\par
\par
  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or\par
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form\par
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany\par
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which\par
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a\par
medium customarily used for software interchange.\par
\par
  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy\par
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the\par
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to\par
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not\par
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\par
\par
  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the\par
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or\par
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a\par
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and\par
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.\par
\par
  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library\par
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it\par
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the\par
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.\par
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.\par
\par
  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file\par
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a\par
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.\par
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be\par
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The\par
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.\par
\par
  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data\par
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline\par
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object\par
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative\par
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the\par
Library will still fall under Section 6.)\par
\par
  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may\par
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.\par
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,\par
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.\par
\page\par
  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or\par
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a\par
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work\par
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit\par
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse\par
engineering for debugging such modifications.\par
\par
  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the\par
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by\par
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work\par
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the\par
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference\par
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one\par
of these things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding\par
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever\par
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under\par
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked\par
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that\par
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the\par
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified\par
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood\par
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the\par
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application\par
    to use the modified definitions.)\par
\par
    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the\par
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a\par
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,\par
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)\par
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if\par
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is\par
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.\par
\par
    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at\par
    least three years, to give the same user the materials\par
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more\par
    than the cost of performing this distribution.\par
\par
    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy\par
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above\par
    specified materials from the same place.\par
\par
    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these\par
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.\par
\par
  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the\par
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for\par
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,\par
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is\par
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major\par
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on\par
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies\par
the executable.\par
\par
  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license\par
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally\par
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot\par
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you\par
distribute.\par
\page\par
  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the\par
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library\par
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined\par
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on\par
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise\par
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:\par
\par
    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work\par
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library\par
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the\par
    Sections above.\par
\par
    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact\par
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining\par
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.\par
\par
  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute\par
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any\par
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or\par
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your\par
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,\par
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses\par
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.\par
\par
  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not\par
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or\par
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are\par
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by\par
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and\par
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying\par
the Library or works based on it.\par
\par
  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the\par
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the\par
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library\par
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further\par
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.\par
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with\par
this License.\par
\page\par
  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent\par
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),\par
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or\par
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not\par
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot\par
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this\par
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you\par
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent\par
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by\par
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then\par
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to\par
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.\par
\par
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any\par
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,\par
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.\par
\par
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any\par
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any\par
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the\par
integrity of the free software distribution system which is\par
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made\par
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed\par
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that\par
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing\par
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot\par
impose that choice.\par
\par
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to\par
be a consequence of the rest of this License.\par
\par
  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in\par
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the\par
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add\par
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,\par
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus\par
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if\par
written in the body of this License.\par
\par
  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new\par
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.\par
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,\par
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.\par
\par
Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library\par
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and\par
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and\par
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a\par
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by\par
the Free Software Foundation.\par
\page\par
  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free\par
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,\par
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is\par
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free\par
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our\par
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status\par
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing\par
and reuse of software generally.\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab     NO WARRANTY\par
\par
  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO\par
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.\par
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR\par
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY\par
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE\par
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME\par
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\par
\par
  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN\par
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY\par
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU\par
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR\par
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE\par
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING\par
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A\par
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF\par
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH\par
DAMAGES.\par
\par
\tab\tab      END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\page\par
\par
------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\par
\par
  LICENSE ISSUES\par
  ==============\par
\par
  The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a dual license, i.e. both the conditions of the OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit.\par
  See below for the actual license texts. Actually both licenses are BSD-style Open Source licenses. In case of any license issues related to OpenSSL please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
\par
  OpenSSL License\par
  ---------------\par
\par
/* ====================================================================\par
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2002 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this\par
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to\par
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without\par
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact\par
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"\par
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written\par
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.\par
 *\par
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following\par
 *    acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * ====================================================================\par
 *\par
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young\par
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim\par
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 *\par
 */\par
\par
 Original SSLeay License\par
 -----------------------\par
\par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * This package is an SSL implementation written\par
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
 * \par
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,\par
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation\par
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms\par
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * \par
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
 * the code are not to be removed.\par
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.\par
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or\par
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
 * \par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by\par
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library\par
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from \par
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 * \par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 * \par
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
 * copied and put under another distribution licence\par
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
 */\par
\par
-------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
}
 