{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset77 Courier-Bold;\f4\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f5\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
\f6\fnil\fcharset77 Geneva;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red226\green226\blue226;\red146\green150\blue153;\red0\green21\blue147;
\red89\green27\blue149;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14080\viewh11760\viewkind0
\pard\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs34 \cf0 Building Tokend Using the Darwin Build Scripts
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
These instructions will show you how to build a 
\f2 tokend
\f1  module using the Darwin Build Scripts. These scripts mimic the build process used internally at Apple to build Mac OS X. Using these scripts greatly simplifies the task of building Darwin projects and increases the chances that your modified project will run on a Mac OS X system.\
\
\pard\tx0\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Please refer to the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  page at 
\f2 <http://trac.macosforge.org/projects/darwinbuild>
\f1 . Support for the Darwin Build Scripts is provided on the 
\f2 darwinbuild-dev
\f1  mailing list referred to on that page, and not by Developer Technical Support.\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 NOTE: 
\f2 tokend
\f1  modules depend on a significant number of projects in Darwin. Because of this, using the Darwin Build Scripts is the only supported way to download and install all of the dependencies required to build a 
\f2 tokend
\f1  module. The Darwin Build Scripts use the command line tool 
\f2 xcodebuild
\f1  which uses the same Xcode project files as Xcode itself.\
\
Once 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  has been used to set up the build environment, Xcode can be used for subsequent builds in conjunction with the 
\f2 Tokend-XYZ
\f1  sample project available from DTS.\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Perform the following steps to download and set up the 
\f3 darwinbuild
\f0  environment.\
\pard\sl480\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Here are the steps needed to set up the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  environment. You only need to perform these steps once.\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 1.	Launch Terminal and check out the Darwin Build Scripts from the Subversion repository at macosforge.org:\
\
	
\f2 $ cd ~/Documents\
	$ svn co http://svn.macosforge.org/repository/darwinbuild/trunk darwinbuild\
\
	
\f1 NOTE: Mac OS X does not currently ship with Subversion installed. If you need help installing Subversion please see\
	<
\f2 http://www.macosforge.org/subversion.html>.
\f1 \
\
2.	Open the 
\f2 README
\f1  file in the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  directory to learn more about the darwinbuild process.\
\
3.	Set the current working directory to the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  directory. For example:\
\
	
\f2 $ cd ~/Documents/darwinbuild\
\

\f1 	A shortcut is to type "
\f2 cd 
\f1 " in Terminal, then drag the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  folder from Finder to the Terminal window.\
\
5.	Install the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  environment. By default the install will be in 
\f2 /usr/local/darwinbuild. 
\f1 NOTE: Parts of the 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  environment will be downloaded from 
\f2 macosforge.org
\f1 , so you will need a working Internet connection in order to complete the installation.\
\
	
\f2 $ make\
	$ sudo make install
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 6.	Change the current working directory to the location where you want to create a disk image that will be used for all 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  builds. For example:\
\
	
\f2 $ cd ~/Documents
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 7.	Create a disk image to hold the build products.\
\

\f2   	$ hdiutil create -size 2g -type UDIF -fs HFSX -volname Builds -uid 0 -gid 0 -attach Builds.dmg\
  	$ sudo vsdbutil -a /Volumes/Builds\
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 8.	Log in as 
\f2 root. darwinbuild
\f1  must be run as 
\f2 root.	$ sudo -s\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0   	Password:\

\f1 \
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 9.	It will save some typing if 
\f2 /usr/local/bin 
\f1 is in your path. Otherwise, you'll need to add 
\f2 /usr/local/bin
\f1  before each invocation of a 
\f2 darwinbuild 
\f1 command.\
\
	
\f2 # export PATH=$\{PATH\}:/usr/local/bin
\f1 \
\
10.	Create a directory within the 
\f2 Builds
\f1  volume to contain the build products for a particular version of 
\f2 Tokend
\f1 . The example uses build 8P135 which corresponds to Mac OS X 10.4.9 (PowerPC) and build 8P2137 which corresponds to Mac OS X 10.4.9 (Intel). Substitute different build names if you wish to build a version of 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  other than the one that is included in Mac OS X 10.4.9.\
\

\f2   	# cd /Volumes/Builds\
  	# mkdir Build8P135\
  	# mkdir Build8P2137\
\

\f1 11.	Initialize the build environment for the particular build you're interested in. This includes loading some additional dependencies that aren't currently automatically loaded the first time 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  is built.
\f2 \
\
  	# cd Build8P135\
  	# darwinbuild -init 8P135\
	# darwinbuild -load gnutar\
  	# cd ../Build8P2137\
  	# darwinbuild -init 8P2137\
	# darwinbuild -load SystemStubs\
	# darwinbuild -load gnutar\
	\

\f1 12.	You can speed up the build cycle by disabling the building of binaries for architectures not supported by a particular Mac OS X build. In other words, it doesn't make sense to build 
\f2 i386
\f1  architecture binaries for a PowerPC build of Mac OS X.\
\
	To do this, change the build information plist to build only for the desired architecture. NOTE: The architecture setting is in the build information plist for a build corresponding to a major release of Mac OS X. The plists for minor releases inherit most of their settings from the major release plist. Therefore, to change the architectures for build 8P135 and 8P2137 (Mac OS X 10.4.5), edit the plist for build 8A428 (Mac OS X 10.4).\
\
	The 
\f2 darwinxref edit
\f1  command will open the plist using the 
\f2 vi
\f1  editor:\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 	# cd ../Build8P135\
	# darwinxref -b 8A428 edit
\f1 \
\
	Remove 
\f2 i386
\f1  from 
\f2 RC_ARCHS
\f1  at the top level of the plist, then write out the file and quit 
\f2 vi
\f1  with 
\f2 :wq
\f1 .\
\
	In some cases, the minor release plists also have an 
\f2 RC_ARCHS
\f1  key at the top level. You should repeat the above process for those plists as well:\

\f2 	\
	# darwinxref -b 8L127 edit
\f1 \
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 	
\f1 Now repeat the above process for the build directory for the Intel architecture:\

\f2 \
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	# cd ../Build8P2137\
	# darwinxref -b 8A428 edit
\f1 \
\
	Again, remove 
\f2 ppc
\f1  from 
\f2 RC_ARCHS
\f1 , then write out the file and quit 
\f2 vi
\f1  with 
\f2 :wq
\f1 .\
\
	Repeat this process for any minor release plists with an 
\f2 RC_ARCHS
\f1  key at the top level:\
\
	
\f2 # darwinxref -b 8L2127 edit\
\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 	Remove 
\f2 ppc
\f1  from 
\f2 RC_ARCHS
\f1 , then write out the file and quit 
\f2 vi
\f1  with 
\f2 :wq
\f1 .\
\
13. If you want to build for the PowerPC architecture using an Intel-based Mac, copy the following files to the build directory for the PowerPC architecture:\
\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 	# cd ../Build8P135\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 	#
\f2  cp /usr/sbin/chroot BuildRoot/usr/sbin/\

\f1 	#
\f2  cp /usr/lib/dyld BuildRoot/usr/lib/\

\f1 	#
\f2  cp /usr/lib/libSystem.B.dylib BuildRoot/usr/lib/\

\f1 	#
\f2  cp /usr/lib/libgcc_s.1.dylib BuildRoot/usr/lib/\

\f1 	\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 14.	Return to your normal user login.\
\
	
\f2 # exit\
	$
\f1 \
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\
Perform the following steps to download and build the 
\f3 Tokend
\f0  project.\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx0\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 NOTE: 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  does not currently work with Xcode 2.4.1. If you have Xcode 2.4.1 installed, you will need to uninstall it and install Xcode 2.4 instead. See 
\f2 About Xcode Tools.pdf
\f1  in the Xcode Tools install image for details. \
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 1.	Mount the 
\f2 Builds
\f1  disk image if it isn't already mounted.\
\
2.	Launch Terminal and change the current working directory to the build directory for the PowerPC architecture.\
\

\f2 	$ cd /Volumes/Builds/Build8P135\

\f1 \
3.	The following commands will download the 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project and all of its dependencies and then build the 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project.\
\

\f2 	$ sudo darwinbuild Tokend\
	Password:\

\f1 \
	NOTE: The download will only be done the first time. After that 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  will use the projects in the 
\f2 Builds/Build8P135
\f1  directory.\
\
4.	
\f2 darwinbuild 
\f1 can only operate on one build at a time. Therefore, to build a universal 
\f2 tokend
\f1  one must build both architectures separately and then merge them into a single universal binary with the 
\f2 lipo
\f1  command.\
	\
 	Change the current working directory to the build directory for the Intel architecture.\
\

\f2 	$ cd ../Build8P2137\

\f1 \
5.	Now build the 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project for the Intel architecture. The following commands will download the 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project and all of its dependencies the first time it is run.\
\

\f2 	$ sudo darwinbuild Tokend\
	Password:\

\f1 \
6.	Create universal binaries for each 
\f2 tokend.\
\
	$ sudo lipo ../Build8P135/BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30544.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30557.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC -create -output BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30557.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC\
	$ sudo lipo ../Build8P135/BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30544.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC_debug BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30557.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC_debug -create -output BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30557.root/System/Library/Security/tokend/BELPIC.tokend/Contents/MacOS/BELPIC_debug\
\
	
\f1 Repeat these two commands for each 
\f2 tokend
\f1  substituting its name in place of 
\f2 BELPIC.\

\f1 \
4.	Move aside the shipping 
\f2 tokend
\f1 s:\
\

\f2 	$ sudo mkdir /System/Library/Security/tokend/saved\
	$ sudo mv /System/Library/Security/tokend/*.tokend /System/Library/Security/tokend/saved
\f1 \
\
5.	Install the new 
\f2 tokend
\f1 s from the 
\f2 BuildRoot.
\f1  \
\
	
\f2 $ sudo ditto BuildRoot/var/tmp/Tokend/Tokend-30557.root /\
\
\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 To modify the 
\f3 Tokend
\f0  sources:
\f1\b0 \
\
1.	Expand the source archive. 
\f2 darwinbuild
\f1  will prefer a source directory over a tar archive if both are present. NOTE: This is easier to do in Terminal because the archive is owned by 
\f2 root
\f1 .\
\
	
\f2 $ cd Sources
\f1 \
	
\f2 $ sudo tar xvzf Tokend-30544.tar.gz\
	$ cd ..\
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 2.	Change the ownership of the 
\f2 Sources
\f1  directory:\
\
	
\f2 $ sudo chown -R <myusername> Sources
\f1 \
\
3.	Edit the sources as necessary using Xcode or another source editor. If you want to add your own sources and libraries to the project, see the following section "To add your own sources and libraries to the 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project."\

\f2 \
\
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 To add your own sources and libraries to the 
\f3 Tokend
\f0  project:
\f1\b0 \
\
1.	Copy your source directory into the 
\f2 Sources/Tokend-30544
\f1  directory.\
\
2.	Copy your libraries into the 
\f2 BuildRoot/usr/lib
\f1  directory.\
\
3.	Open the 
\f2 Sources/Tokend-30544/Tokend.xcode
\f1  project file. If you've already upgraded the project using Xcode 2.1 or later, open the 
\f2 Sources/Tokend-30544/Tokend.xcodeproj
\f1  project file instead.\
\
4.	If you're running Xcode 2.1 or later and you haven't yet upgraded the project, Xcode will prompt you to upgrade the project. Click "Upgrade a Copy". This will result in a new 
\f2 Tokend.xcodeproj
\f1  project file, which you'll be asked to save in the project directory. Click "Save" when the save panel appears.\
\
5.	In the Groups and Files column, open the Targets disclosure triangle.\
\
6.	Under Targets there will be the targets 
\f2 world
\f1 , 
\f2 BELPIC
\f1 , 
\f2 CAC
\f1 , 
\f2 MuscleCard
\f1 , and 
\f2 tokend
\f1 . Select the 
\f2 BELPIC
\f1  target and then select Edit > Duplicate.\
\
7.	Option-click the 
\f2 BELPIC copy
\f1  target's name and type a new name for the target.\
\
8.	In the File Name column, select all the files with names beginning with 
\f2 belpic
\f1  or 
\f2 BELPIC
\f1 , then press the Delete key to remove them from your target. Confirm the delete when prompted.\
\
9.	Double-click your new target to bring up the Target Info window.\
\
10.	Select the Build tab at the top center of the Target Info window.\
\
11.	Change the Product Name setting from 
\f2 BELPIC
\f1  to the name you want to give your 
\f2 tokend
\f1 .\
\
12.	Change the Info.plist File setting to 
\f2 <your source directory>/<your Info.plist file's name>
\f1 .\
\
13.	Close the Target Info window.\
\
14.	Drag your source directory to the Groups and Files list in the Xcode project window.\
\
15.	In the sheet that appears, verify that only your target is selected in the Add to Targets list, then click the Add button.\
\
16.	In the File Name column, select your Info.plist file, then press the Delete key to remove it from your target. Confirm the delete when prompted. (The Build rules will automatically include your 
\f2 Info.plist
\f1  in the built 
\f2 tokend
\f1 .)\
\
17.	If your project uses Mac OS X libraries beyond those used by the base 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  project, you can add those libraries to the 
\f2 BuildRoot
\f1  with this command:\
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ri-4680\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 	$ sudo darwinbuild -load <Darwin project containing library>\
	Password:
\f1 \
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
18.	Use Project > Add to Project... to add any additional libraries or frameworks you need to your target. To navigate to 
\f2 BuildRoot/usr/lib
\f1  from the Open panel, type command-shift-G to bring up the Go To Folder window. Enter the full path 
\f2 /Volumes/Builds/Build8P135/BuildRoot/usr/lib
\f1  and click the Go button.\
	\
19.	The project is set up to do a world build by default. You can change the active target to your target using the Active Target popup at the upper left corner of the project window. Or, add your target to the 
\f2 world
\f1  target either by dragging your target into the 
\f2 world
\f1  target or by double-clicking the 
\f2 world
\f1  target, selecting the 
\f2 General
\f1  tab, click the + button, then selecting your target from the list that appears.\
\
\
\pard\tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf0 To build the example 
\f3 Tokend-XYZ
\f0  project using Xcode:
\f1\b0 \
\
1.	Build 
\f2 Tokend
\f1  for your desired architectures first using the above instructions. You only need to do this once.\
\
2.	There is a separate 
\f2 Tokend-XYZ
\f1  project for the Intel and PowerPC architecture. Copy each project directory into the correct 
\f2 \cf0 Sources
\f1 \cf0  directory.\
\
3.	Open the desired 
\f2 Tokend-XYZ.xcodeproj
\f1  project file in Xcode and click the Build button. The build products will be sent to the 
\f2 \cf0 build
\f1 \cf0  directory inside the project directory as is typical when building with Xcode.\
\
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx380\li380\fi-380\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa100\ql\qnatural

\f4\b\fs32 \cf0 Document Revision History\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth13580\trftsWidth3 \tamarb200 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \tapadt180 \tapadb180 
\clvertalt \clcbpat2 \clwWidth1900\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clcbpat2 \clwWidth11000\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 Date\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Notes\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth13580\trftsWidth3 \tamarb200 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \tapadt180 \tapadb180 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1900\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth11000\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f5\b0 \cf0 2006-12-15\
2006-04-19\
2005-10-20\
2005-06-08\
2005-06-03\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Updated URL for downloading darwinbuild.\
Added instructions to build universal tokend. Other minor corrections.\
Major revision for darwinbuild-0.7.\
Third draft. Add -b and -build options.\
Second draft.\cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth13580\trftsWidth3 \tamarb200 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \tapadt180 \tapadb180 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1900\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth11000\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clpadl180 \clpadr180 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 2005-05-25\cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 First draft.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa200\ql\qnatural

\f4\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sa200\qc

\f6\b0\fs20 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2005-2007 Apple Inc.
\f5 \uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f6 \cf4 All rights reserved.}}
\f6  | {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Terms of use}} | {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Privacy Notice}}}